docs/guide/env-and-mode.md, before:

# Env Variables and Modes

## Env Variables

Vite exposes env variables on the special **`import.meta.env`** object. Some built-in variables are available in all cases:

- **`import.meta.env.MODE`**: {string} the [mode](#modes) the app is running in.

- **`import.meta.env.BASE_URL`**: {string} the base url the app is being served from. This is determined by the [`base` config option](/config/shared-options.md#base).

- **`import.meta.env.PROD`**: {boolean} whether the app is running in production (running the dev server with `NODE_ENV='production'` or running an app built with `NODE_ENV='production'`).

- **`import.meta.env.DEV`**: {boolean} whether the app is running in development (always the opposite of `import.meta.env.PROD`)

- **`import.meta.env.SSR`**: {boolean} whether the app is running in the [server](./ssr.md#conditional-logic).

## `.env` Files

Vite uses [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) to load additional environment variables from the following files in your [environment directory](/config/shared-options.md#envdir):

```
.env                # loaded in all cases
.env.local          # loaded in all cases, ignored by git
.env.[mode]         # only loaded in specified mode
.env.[mode].local   # only loaded in specified mode, ignored by git
```

:::tip Env Loading Priorities

An env file for a specific mode (e.g. `.env.production`) will take higher priority than a generic one (e.g. `.env`).

In addition, environment variables that already exist when Vite is executed have the highest priority and will not be overwritten by `.env` files. For example, when running `VITE_SOME_KEY=123 vite build`.

`.env` files are loaded at the start of Vite. Restart the server after making changes.
:::

Loaded env variables are also exposed to your client source code via `import.meta.env` as strings.

To prevent accidentally leaking env variables to the client, only variables prefixed with `VITE_` are exposed to your Vite-processed code. e.g. for the following env variables:

```
VITE_SOME_KEY=123
DB_PASSWORD=foobar
```

Only `VITE_SOME_KEY` will be exposed as `import.meta.env.VITE_SOME_KEY` to your client source code, but `DB_PASSWORD` will not.

```js
console.log(import.meta.env.VITE_SOME_KEY) // 123
console.log(import.meta.env.DB_PASSWORD) // undefined
```

Also, Vite uses [dotenv-expand](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv-expand) to expand variables out of the box. To learn more about the syntax, check out [their docs](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv-expand#what-rules-does-the-expansion-engine-follow).

Note that if you want to use `$` inside your environment value, you have to escape it with `\`.

```
KEY=123
NEW_KEY1=test$foo   # test
NEW_KEY2=test\$foo  # test$foo
NEW_KEY3=test$KEY   # test123
```

If you want to customize the env variables prefix, see the [envPrefix](/config/shared-options.html#envprefix) option.

:::warning SECURITY NOTES

- `.env.*.local` files are local-only and can contain sensitive variables. You should add `*.local` to your `.gitignore` to avoid them being checked into git.

- Since any variables exposed to your Vite source code will end up in your client bundle, `VITE_*` variables should _not_ contain any sensitive information.
  :::

### IntelliSense for TypeScript

By default, Vite provides type definitions for `import.meta.env` in [`vite/client.d.ts`](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/blob/main/packages/vite/client.d.ts). While you can define more custom env variables in `.env.[mode]` files, you may want to get TypeScript IntelliSense for user-defined env variables that are prefixed with `VITE_`.

To achieve this, you can create an `env.d.ts` in `src` directory, then augment `ImportMetaEnv` like this:

```typescript
/// <reference types="vite/client" />

interface ImportMetaEnv {
  readonly VITE_APP_TITLE: string
  // more env variables...
}

interface ImportMeta {
  readonly env: ImportMetaEnv
}
```

If your code relies on types from browser environments such as [DOM](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/blob/main/lib/lib.dom.d.ts) and [WebWorker](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/blob/main/lib/lib.webworker.d.ts), you can update the [lib](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#lib) field in `tsconfig.json`.

```json
{
  "lib": ["WebWorker"]
}
```

## HTML Env Replacement

Vite also supports replacing env variables in HTML files. Any properties in `import.meta.env` can be used in HTML files with a special `%ENV_NAME%` syntax:

```html
<h1>Vite is running in %MODE%</h1>
<p>Using data from %VITE_API_URL%</p>
```

If the env doesn't exist in `import.meta.env`, e.g. `%NON_EXISTENT%`, it will be ignored and not replaced, unlike `import.meta.env.NON_EXISTENT` in JS where it's replaced as `undefined`.

Given that Vite is used by many frameworks, it is intentionally unopinionated about complex replacements like conditionals. Vite can be extended using [an existing userland plugin](https://github.com/vitejs/awesome-vite#transformers) or a custom plugin that implements the [`transformIndexHtml` hook](./api-plugin#transformindexhtml).

## Modes

By default, the dev server (`dev` command) runs in `development` mode and the `build` command runs in `production` mode.

This means when running `vite build`, it will load the env variables from `.env.production` if there is one:

```
# .env.production
VITE_APP_TITLE=My App
```

In your app, you can render the title using `import.meta.env.VITE_APP_TITLE`.

In some cases, you may want to run `vite build` with a different mode to render a different title. You can overwrite the default mode used for a command by passing the `--mode` option flag. For example, if you want to build your app for a staging mode:

```bash
vite build --mode staging
```

And create a `.env.staging` file:

```
# .env.staging
VITE_APP_TITLE=My App (staging)
```

As `vite build` runs a production build by default, you can also change this and run a development build by using a different mode and `.env` file configuration:

```
# .env.testing
NODE_ENV=development
```

## NODE_ENV and Modes

It's important to note that `NODE_ENV` (`process.env.NODE_ENV`) and modes are two different concepts. Here's how different commands affect the `NODE_ENV` and mode:

| Command                                              | NODE_ENV        | Mode            |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | --------------- |
| `vite build`                                         | `"production"`  | `"production"`  |
| `vite build --mode development`                      | `"production"`  | `"development"` |
| `NODE_ENV=development vite build`                    | `"development"` | `"production"`  |
| `NODE_ENV=development vite build --mode development` | `"development"` | `"development"` |

The different values of `NODE_ENV` and mode also reflect on its corresponding `import.meta.env` properties:

| Command                | `import.meta.env.PROD` | `import.meta.env.DEV` |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------- |
| `NODE_ENV=production`  | `true`                 | `false`               |
| `NODE_ENV=development` | `false`                | `true`                |
| `NODE_ENV=other`       | `false`                | `true`                |

| Command              | `import.meta.env.MODE` |
| -------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `--mode production`  | `"production"`         |
| `--mode development` | `"development"`        |
| `--mode staging`     | `"staging"`            |

:::tip `NODE_ENV` in `.env` files

`NODE_ENV=...` can be set in the command, and also in your `.env` file. If `NODE_ENV` is specified in a `.env.[mode]` file, the mode can be used to control its value. However, both `NODE_ENV` and modes remain as two different concepts.

The main benefit with `NODE_ENV=...` in the command is that it allows Vite to detect the value early. It also allows you to read `process.env.NODE_ENV` in your Vite config as Vite can only load the env files once the config is evaluated.
:::

Commit message:

docs(env): add .env parsing note and vite-env.d.ts augmentation (#15232)
Co-authored-by: Bjorn Lu <bjornlu.dev@gmail.com>

docs/guide/env-and-mode.md, after:

# Env Variables and Modes

## Env Variables

Vite exposes env variables on the special **`import.meta.env`** object. Some built-in variables are available in all cases:

- **`import.meta.env.MODE`**: {string} the [mode](#modes) the app is running in.

- **`import.meta.env.BASE_URL`**: {string} the base url the app is being served from. This is determined by the [`base` config option](/config/shared-options.md#base).

- **`import.meta.env.PROD`**: {boolean} whether the app is running in production (running the dev server with `NODE_ENV='production'` or running an app built with `NODE_ENV='production'`).

- **`import.meta.env.DEV`**: {boolean} whether the app is running in development (always the opposite of `import.meta.env.PROD`)

- **`import.meta.env.SSR`**: {boolean} whether the app is running in the [server](./ssr.md#conditional-logic).

## `.env` Files

Vite uses [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) to load additional environment variables from the following files in your [environment directory](/config/shared-options.md#envdir):

```
.env                # loaded in all cases
.env.local          # loaded in all cases, ignored by git
.env.[mode]         # only loaded in specified mode
.env.[mode].local   # only loaded in specified mode, ignored by git
```

:::tip Env Loading Priorities

An env file for a specific mode (e.g. `.env.production`) will take higher priority than a generic one (e.g. `.env`).

In addition, environment variables that already exist when Vite is executed have the highest priority and will not be overwritten by `.env` files. For example, when running `VITE_SOME_KEY=123 vite build`.

`.env` files are loaded at the start of Vite. Restart the server after making changes.
:::

Loaded env variables are also exposed to your client source code via `import.meta.env` as strings.

To prevent accidentally leaking env variables to the client, only variables prefixed with `VITE_` are exposed to your Vite-processed code. e.g. for the following env variables:

```
VITE_SOME_KEY=123
DB_PASSWORD=foobar
```

Only `VITE_SOME_KEY` will be exposed as `import.meta.env.VITE_SOME_KEY` to your client source code, but `DB_PASSWORD` will not.

```js
console.log(import.meta.env.VITE_SOME_KEY) // "123"
console.log(import.meta.env.DB_PASSWORD) // undefined
```

:::tip Env parsing

As shown above, `VITE_SOME_KEY` is a number but returns a string when parsed. The same would also happen for boolean env variables. Make sure to convert to the desired type when using it in your code.
:::

Also, Vite uses [dotenv-expand](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv-expand) to expand variables out of the box. To learn more about the syntax, check out [their docs](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv-expand#what-rules-does-the-expansion-engine-follow).

Note that if you want to use `$` inside your environment value, you have to escape it with `\`.

```
KEY=123
NEW_KEY1=test$foo   # test
NEW_KEY2=test\$foo  # test$foo
NEW_KEY3=test$KEY   # test123
```

If you want to customize the env variables prefix, see the [envPrefix](/config/shared-options.html#envprefix) option.

:::warning SECURITY NOTES

- `.env.*.local` files are local-only and can contain sensitive variables. You should add `*.local` to your `.gitignore` to avoid them being checked into git.

- Since any variables exposed to your Vite source code will end up in your client bundle, `VITE_*` variables should _not_ contain any sensitive information.
  :::

### IntelliSense for TypeScript

By default, Vite provides type definitions for `import.meta.env` in [`vite/client.d.ts`](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/blob/main/packages/vite/client.d.ts). While you can define more custom env variables in `.env.[mode]` files, you may want to get TypeScript IntelliSense for user-defined env variables that are prefixed with `VITE_`.

To achieve this, you can create an `vite-env.d.ts` in `src` directory, then augment `ImportMetaEnv` like this:

```typescript
/// <reference types="vite/client" />

interface ImportMetaEnv {
  readonly VITE_APP_TITLE: string
  // more env variables...
}

interface ImportMeta {
  readonly env: ImportMetaEnv
}
```

If your code relies on types from browser environments such as [DOM](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/blob/main/lib/lib.dom.d.ts) and [WebWorker](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/blob/main/lib/lib.webworker.d.ts), you can update the [lib](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#lib) field in `tsconfig.json`.

```json
{
  "lib": ["WebWorker"]
}
```

:::warning Imports will break type augmentation

If the `ImportMetaEnv` augmentation does not work, make sure you do not have any `import` statements in `vite-env.d.ts`. See the [TypeScript documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/modules.html#how-javascript-modules-are-defined) for more information.
:::

## HTML Env Replacement

Vite also supports replacing env variables in HTML files. Any properties in `import.meta.env` can be used in HTML files with a special `%ENV_NAME%` syntax:

```html
<h1>Vite is running in %MODE%</h1>
<p>Using data from %VITE_API_URL%</p>
```

If the env doesn't exist in `import.meta.env`, e.g. `%NON_EXISTENT%`, it will be ignored and not replaced, unlike `import.meta.env.NON_EXISTENT` in JS where it's replaced as `undefined`.

Given that Vite is used by many frameworks, it is intentionally unopinionated about complex replacements like conditionals. Vite can be extended using [an existing userland plugin](https://github.com/vitejs/awesome-vite#transformers) or a custom plugin that implements the [`transformIndexHtml` hook](./api-plugin#transformindexhtml).

## Modes

By default, the dev server (`dev` command) runs in `development` mode and the `build` command runs in `production` mode.

This means when running `vite build`, it will load the env variables from `.env.production` if there is one:

```
# .env.production
VITE_APP_TITLE=My App
```

In your app, you can render the title using `import.meta.env.VITE_APP_TITLE`.

In some cases, you may want to run `vite build` with a different mode to render a different title. You can overwrite the default mode used for a command by passing the `--mode` option flag. For example, if you want to build your app for a staging mode:

```bash
vite build --mode staging
```

And create a `.env.staging` file:

```
# .env.staging
VITE_APP_TITLE=My App (staging)
```

As `vite build` runs a production build by default, you can also change this and run a development build by using a different mode and `.env` file configuration:

```
# .env.testing
NODE_ENV=development
```

## NODE_ENV and Modes

It's important to note that `NODE_ENV` (`process.env.NODE_ENV`) and modes are two different concepts. Here's how different commands affect the `NODE_ENV` and mode:

| Command                                              | NODE_ENV        | Mode            |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | --------------- |
| `vite build`                                         | `"production"`  | `"production"`  |
| `vite build --mode development`                      | `"production"`  | `"development"` |
| `NODE_ENV=development vite build`                    | `"development"` | `"production"`  |
| `NODE_ENV=development vite build --mode development` | `"development"` | `"development"` |

The different values of `NODE_ENV` and mode also reflect on its corresponding `import.meta.env` properties:

| Command                | `import.meta.env.PROD` | `import.meta.env.DEV` |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------- |
| `NODE_ENV=production`  | `true`                 | `false`               |
| `NODE_ENV=development` | `false`                | `true`                |
| `NODE_ENV=other`       | `false`                | `true`                |

| Command              | `import.meta.env.MODE` |
| -------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `--mode production`  | `"production"`         |
| `--mode development` | `"development"`        |
| `--mode staging`     | `"staging"`            |

:::tip `NODE_ENV` in `.env` files

`NODE_ENV=...` can be set in the command, and also in your `.env` file. If `NODE_ENV` is specified in a `.env.[mode]` file, the mode can be used to control its value. However, both `NODE_ENV` and modes remain as two different concepts.

The main benefit with `NODE_ENV=...` in the command is that it allows Vite to detect the value early. It also allows you to read `process.env.NODE_ENV` in your Vite config as Vite can only load the env files once the config is evaluated.
:::
