docs/config/index.md, before:

---
title: Configuring Vite
---

# Configuring Vite

When running `vite` from the command line, Vite will automatically try to resolve a config file named `vite.config.js` inside [project root](/guide/#index-html-and-project-root) (other JS and TS extensions are also supported).

The most basic config file looks like this:

```js
// vite.config.js
export default {
  // config options
}
```

Note Vite supports using ES modules syntax in the config file even if the project is not using native Node ESM, e.g. `type: "module"` in `package.json`. In this case, the config file is auto pre-processed before load.

You can also explicitly specify a config file to use with the `--config` CLI option (resolved relative to `cwd`):

```bash
vite --config my-config.js
```

## Config Intellisense

Since Vite ships with TypeScript typings, you can leverage your IDE's intellisense with jsdoc type hints:

```js
/** @type {import('vite').UserConfig} */
export default {
  // ...
}
```

Alternatively, you can use the `defineConfig` helper which should provide intellisense without the need for jsdoc annotations:

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

export default defineConfig({
  // ...
})
```

Vite also directly supports TS config files. You can use `vite.config.ts` with the `defineConfig` helper as well.

## Conditional Config

If the config needs to conditionally determine options based on the command (`serve` or `build`), the [mode](/guide/env-and-mode) being used, if it's an SSR build (`isSsrBuild`), or is previewing the build (`isPreview`), it can export a function instead:

```js twoslash
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
// ---cut---
export default defineConfig(({ command, mode, isSsrBuild, isPreview }) => {
  if (command === 'serve') {
    return {
      // dev specific config
    }
  } else {
    // command === 'build'
    return {
      // build specific config
    }
  }
})
```

It is important to note that in Vite's API the `command` value is `serve` during dev (in the cli [`vite`](/guide/cli#vite), `vite dev`, and `vite serve` are aliases), and `build` when building for production ([`vite build`](/guide/cli#vite-build)).

`isSsrBuild` and `isPreview` are additional optional flags to differentiate the kind of `build` and `serve` commands respectively. Some tools that load the Vite config may not support these flags and will pass `undefined` instead. Hence, it's recommended to use explicit comparison against `true` and `false`.

## Async Config

If the config needs to call async functions, it can export an async function instead. And this async function can also be passed through `defineConfig` for improved intellisense support:

```js twoslash
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
// ---cut---
export default defineConfig(async ({ command, mode }) => {
  const data = await asyncFunction()
  return {
    // vite config
  }
})
```

## Using Environment Variables in Config

Environmental Variables can be obtained from `process.env` as usual.

Note that Vite doesn't load `.env` files by default as the files to load can only be determined after evaluating the Vite config, for example, the `root` and `envDir` options affect the loading behaviour. However, you can use the exported `loadEnv` helper to load the specific `.env` file if needed.

```js twoslash
import { defineConfig, loadEnv } from 'vite'

export default defineConfig(({ command, mode }) => {
  // Load env file based on `mode` in the current working directory.
  // Set the third parameter to '' to load all env regardless of the `VITE_` prefix.
  const env = loadEnv(mode, process.cwd(), '')
  return {
    // vite config
    define: {
      __APP_ENV__: JSON.stringify(env.APP_ENV),
    },
  }
})
```

Commit message:

docs: show usage with `satisfies` operator (#17643)

docs/config/index.md, after:

---
title: Configuring Vite
---

# Configuring Vite

When running `vite` from the command line, Vite will automatically try to resolve a config file named `vite.config.js` inside [project root](/guide/#index-html-and-project-root) (other JS and TS extensions are also supported).

The most basic config file looks like this:

```js
// vite.config.js
export default {
  // config options
}
```

Note Vite supports using ES modules syntax in the config file even if the project is not using native Node ESM, e.g. `type: "module"` in `package.json`. In this case, the config file is auto pre-processed before load.

You can also explicitly specify a config file to use with the `--config` CLI option (resolved relative to `cwd`):

```bash
vite --config my-config.js
```

## Config Intellisense

Since Vite ships with TypeScript typings, you can leverage your IDE's intellisense with jsdoc type hints:

```js
/** @type {import('vite').UserConfig} */
export default {
  // ...
}
```

Alternatively, you can use the `defineConfig` helper which should provide intellisense without the need for jsdoc annotations:

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

export default defineConfig({
  // ...
})
```

Vite also supports TypeScript config files. You can use `vite.config.ts` with the `defineConfig` helper function above, or with the `satisfies` operator:

```ts
import type { UserConfig } from 'vite'

export default {
  // ...
} satisfies UserConfig
```

## Conditional Config

If the config needs to conditionally determine options based on the command (`serve` or `build`), the [mode](/guide/env-and-mode) being used, if it's an SSR build (`isSsrBuild`), or is previewing the build (`isPreview`), it can export a function instead:

```js twoslash
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
// ---cut---
export default defineConfig(({ command, mode, isSsrBuild, isPreview }) => {
  if (command === 'serve') {
    return {
      // dev specific config
    }
  } else {
    // command === 'build'
    return {
      // build specific config
    }
  }
})
```

It is important to note that in Vite's API the `command` value is `serve` during dev (in the cli [`vite`](/guide/cli#vite), `vite dev`, and `vite serve` are aliases), and `build` when building for production ([`vite build`](/guide/cli#vite-build)).

`isSsrBuild` and `isPreview` are additional optional flags to differentiate the kind of `build` and `serve` commands respectively. Some tools that load the Vite config may not support these flags and will pass `undefined` instead. Hence, it's recommended to use explicit comparison against `true` and `false`.

## Async Config

If the config needs to call async functions, it can export an async function instead. And this async function can also be passed through `defineConfig` for improved intellisense support:

```js twoslash
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
// ---cut---
export default defineConfig(async ({ command, mode }) => {
  const data = await asyncFunction()
  return {
    // vite config
  }
})
```

## Using Environment Variables in Config

Environmental Variables can be obtained from `process.env` as usual.

Note that Vite doesn't load `.env` files by default as the files to load can only be determined after evaluating the Vite config, for example, the `root` and `envDir` options affect the loading behaviour. However, you can use the exported `loadEnv` helper to load the specific `.env` file if needed.

```js twoslash
import { defineConfig, loadEnv } from 'vite'

export default defineConfig(({ command, mode }) => {
  // Load env file based on `mode` in the current working directory.
  // Set the third parameter to '' to load all env regardless of the `VITE_` prefix.
  const env = loadEnv(mode, process.cwd(), '')
  return {
    // vite config
    define: {
      __APP_ENV__: JSON.stringify(env.APP_ENV),
    },
  }
})
```
